[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: I could have written
a lot of notes on promises, but
I think this is just one of those things
where you just have to show people.
If you don't, that's just the way I learn.
I've read on it, I have people,
I've read tutorials and stuff.
And it was great, but I really didn't
understand it until I was like
all right let me just start
working with this stuff.
So that's what we're going to do.
We're just going to work through
som examples of promises for
a couple minutes until everyone feels
like they're up to speed on them.
So we're just going to make a new file.
And you can follow along if you want or
you can just look.
We'll just call it promises.js.
Luckily for us,
the native promise is built into node,
at least the version I'm on.
So we'll just use that but
there are other third party libraries
out there that are pretty cool.
So the thing about promises are, or
the thing that they are trying to solve,
say that we have a function
called action and this is a,
this is a very, very naive example but
this is gonna show you what they do.
And actually takes a call back.
And then on some time in the future,
let's say five seconds, it's going to
call that call back with like some art.
And then we can just call action.
Passing the call back.
>> Speaker 1: All right,
so if I run this, I should see, hey oops.
Get rid of that.
I should see hey in five seconds, right.
So if I run node promises.js,
in five seconds.
>> Speaker 1: Hey, right.
So we had to use the callback for that.
That's nothing new.
That's how JavaScript works.
It uses callbacks versus a vending system.
Promises pretty much give us the same
thing without have to use the callback.
Instead of function control,
we take back control.
And we're able to say now we want
to be notified about this or
notify me when this does come back.
So we jut get more control.
And it's better for
when you have nested things.
So if this call back
took another call back.
And that call back to another call back.
Eventually you'll have something that
looks like a upside down pyramid,
those goes like this.
And then they'll come back out like this.
All these call backs and call backs and
call backs and call backs.
Then you start running out of names for
your variables and
then you got all these closers and
you're like, wait.
Which error am I referencing?
You don't even know anymore.
So promises were made because of that.
There are other alternatives to
promises that are coming out.
Generators, we have a sync functions,
which are part of the ES7 spec,
which are really awesome.
There's a lot of stuff coming out, but
promises has been here for a while and
they finally made it native
in our environments.
So what we're going to do is we're going
to refractor, I guess I'll go back,
we'll refractor this example using
a promise instead of a callback.
So the first thing we'll do, we'll
just get rid of the callback argument.
We'll get rid of the call
to the callback here.
And then what we'll do
is make a new promise.
So, a promise is all it is,
is just an object that has methods on it.
And these methods notify us about
what's happening during this
[INAUDIBLE] operation.
These methods will either let us know that
the value that we're interested in has
resolved or it errored along the way.
That's gonna make more
sense as we right this.
So a promise is just an object
with notification methods on it,
that's it.
>> Speaker 1: So to get started making
a new promise with new promise library.
>> Speaker 1: All we have
to do is have a function that returns a
new promise using the promise constructor.
So they say return a new promise.
Then this promise actually
takes a call back.
Every single thing that we want to be
wrapped inside this promise we just need
to make sure we placing that call back.
So that's step one.
If you wanted to switch your function
over, have your function return a new
promise and have the body of your function
be inside that promises callback.
Step two is to use the built in methods
that I talked about, resolve and reject.
So again, this is how we're gonna let
the promise object knows what values we;re
interested in,
when the operation has been done.
So for instance, if I call resolve
after five seconds has passed,
I'll be able to get access to the data
that I told the promise I want.
If I call reject,
what's going to happen is,
the promise is going to tell
me that an error happened.
I'll show you what that means.
So inside this setTimeout, if I just say
resolve('hey', same thing we had before.
To show you what that's
going to look like,
now what I am going to do is to
refactor that function out here.
All I would do is I would
get rid of this callback
function.
>> Speaker 1: And
now, what is action returning?
It's returning your promise, right?
So it's not doing what it did before.
It doesn't take a callback.
It's actually returning your promise.
It takes no arguments.
So what I could do is,
because it returns a promise,
I get access to a few
methods I could use .then.
So that's what you've been
seeing this whole time.
When you see .then that's because
the function's returning a promise.
And most libraries use this syntax
because there's a specification out there
called the A+ promise specification that
specifies how promises should be built,
and they should have these
methods that do certain things.
You got a question Micheal?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
just wondering generally, is the promise
a functional programming concept or
is it something that was invented for
JavaScript?
>> Speaker 1: It was definitely something
that was invented for JavaScript for
single threaded environments,
specifically in JavaScript but
I wouldn't say it's
a functional thing.
>> Speaker 1: There are,
if you wanna get hard core functional,
there are better alternatives out there
like generators or stuff like that.
But, you-
>> Speaker 2: Do we have observables,
Chris?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, observables,
of course, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Like
Jaffer?
>> Speaker 1: How could I
forget about that?
Yeah, so I wouldn't say, it's definitely
something made for JavaScript and
maybe other languages have
adopted it because it works for
single threaded environments.
>> Speaker 1: So we can call .then which
also takes a call back and this call back,
this is gonna take an argument.
I'll just call it word.
By the name of the argument
you already know what it is.
So, what's happening here,
is let's just walk through it.
I am calling action.
Which is going to return this new promise,
which takes a callback.
And is going to start
this setTimeout here.
After five seconds,
we're going to resolve hey.
So whatever I pass into resolve,
after five seconds,
I have access to it inside
this then right here.
So whatever is an argument inside this
resolve is now accessible right here.
So if I cancel that log where,
and you'll see the same thing will happen.
It's hanging, it's hanging, I should
probably change it for five seconds.
This is too long.
Then hit.
>> Speaker 1: So,
resolve allows us to ask our
promise about something.
So, saying .then is like okay,
so I'm gonna call action and
then when it's ready give me
the data that I'm interested in.
So I can do what I want.
So, because of that now we can
store this in the variable, right?
We can say var promise,
>> Speaker 1: = action.
And then some time in the future,
somewhere else in our code we can
be like okay, now can you just
give me what I'm interested in?
All right?
That's the sweet thing about promises.
So we can do that.
The other thing is.
>> Speaker 1: Is the reject.
So let's say that, we don't wanna resolve
something, we're just gonna reject.
We'll just say, reject.
I should just say new Error.
>> Speaker 1: So
the way this is gonna work is, so
that then is gonna give us the result
property of the resolve data that we want.
Depending on the library that you're
using, this next method is different, but
for the native promise one it's .catch.
So if we do .catch, we get access
to error that might have happened.
So the way this works is either .then
is called or .catch, but not both.
It's gonna be either/or.
So I can do.
The way you can do it
is you would do .then.
>> Speaker 1: And then you also do .catch.
Because both these methods
return the promise itself.
So if we can just chain them.
So what's gonna happen is okay,
I want the word, I want a council.log,
a word, this may or
may not happen we don't know and
then if we have an error I
want to console.log the error.
This may or
may not happen I'm not sure it's
depending on what's happening up here.
On line four, I'm rejecting it,
so we know for
sure that .catch is gonna happen,
so let's just run it.
So, after five seconds,
we get the error no.
That's because .catch.
That's what's logging right
here.
>> Speaker 1: And
I'm just gonna change that.
That's just too long.
Let's just do one second.
>> Speaker 1: All right,
.catch is finding an error.